# Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
# All rights reserved.
# This component and the accompanying materials are made available
# under the terms of the License "Eclipse Public License v1.0"
# which accompanies this distribution, and is available
# at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html".
# 
# Initial Contributors:
# Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
# 
# Contributors:
# 
# Description:
# 


=head1 NAME

CleanEnv - Restores an environment to a clean state.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  cleanenv [options]

options:

  -h  help
  -r  really clean
  -f  force (don't prompt)
  -v  verbose output (-vv very verbose)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides the user with the option of:

=over 4

=item *

Re-installing dirty components.

=item *

Removing files of unknown origin.

=back

Normally when scanning an environment certain directories and files are ignored from the point of view of C<unknown origin> status (see the document I<Installation Guide> for more details), for example intermediate build files. The C<-r> switch causes C<CleanEnv> to not ignore any files when performing it's scan, and hence do a more comprehensive clean.

Normally it will ask you if you want to delete files, and/or reinstall components. The -f flag supresses these questions, and should be used with care.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

 Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
 All rights reserved.
 This component and the accompanying materials are made available
 under the terms of the License "Eclipse Public License v1.0"
 which accompanies this distribution, and is available
 at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html".
 
 Initial Contributors:
 Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
 
 Contributors:
 
 Description:
 

=cut
